- [Instructor] Now, we can't have
a conversation on design patterns
without at least mentioning the Gang of Four.
Now who are this Gang of Four?
It was four software engineers, computer scientists,
that wrote a book that revolutionized how we write code
using object-oriented programming.
Again, they were computer scientists first and foremost,
but they also were authors.
And they wrote a book called, "Design Patterns:
"Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software."
Now this is the book, in my opinion, that changed OOP.
It introduced object-oriented programming,
both the good and the bad.
They didn't sugarcoat anything.
They said exactly what was good about it,
and all the problems that arose,
and then they tried to talk about how to solve
some of those problems.
They focused on common object-oriented programming concerns,
many we take for granted today
because of the comments and the changes
in the industry based on this book.
Now design patterns themselves
filled most of the content.
And they broke those design patterns down into groups.
The first group that we're going to talk
about are the creational patterns.
Now they are so called creational
because as you might imagine, they create objects for you.
The two most common are the Abstract Factory
and the Factory pattern, but there's also a Builder pattern.
And once you see this, if you don't know
it's the Builder pattern, you immediately will say,
"Oh, I've used that before."
Because it's very, very prevalent in software engineering.
One that Spring uses a lot is the Singleton pattern,
though they don't leverage it in the same way,
and we'll talk about that.
But also the Prototype pattern.
Now the second group that they broke
these patterns up into were behavioral patterns.
These were designed to focus on inter-object communication
within the application run time.
Now we're not going to talk about all of these on the course,
but I at least want to bring up what the Gang of Four
talked about in their book.
And these are things like the Command pattern,
and the Interpreter pattern, Mediator, Iterator, Observer.
Then there's this concept of Chain of Responsibility
and the Visitor pattern.
And then there's Memento, State, Strategy,
and the Template pattern, which is one that Spring uses
all over the place, especially when dealing
with remote calls.
The final group that the Gang of Four talked about
were the structural patterns, and these focused
on object composition and interfaces.
Things like the Adapter, the Bridge, the Composite,
the Decorator, which is one that we'll see a lot in Spring.
And Flyweight.
And then there's the Facade and Proxy,
both of which I'm sure you've used
and are very common in the industry.
Proxy is all over the place in Spring
ever since Spring IV.
Now these design patterns do have something
to do with Spring, and I kind of alluded
to some of these already.
Spring inherently uses many of these classic patterns.
But Spring also provides native support
for using some of these in your code.
And Java after all is an object-oriented language,
and as such, Spring, which is based on Java,
uses design patterns, and they're all over the place
in code written in Java because they make sense.
So Spring of course is going to use them to their advantage,
and provide you a way to use them as well.
And that's what we're going to focus on
in the rest of this course.